# RaspberryPi_MC_launcher
Managing several MC Java servers on a RaspberryPi is troublesome. So I write this launcher to make things easier.



## What you should know
~~All Minecraft instances and must be stored in \~/Minecraft~~ Users can now define their path to the directory which holds Minecraft instances (I call it "Minecraft folder" hereafter) on the first launch. Minecraft folder is also where I put the lock file, which contains the path to the currently running Minecraft server instance.

The launcher needs to write a config file in ~/.minecraft and reads it on every launch.

The launcher manages instances using `systemctl`, for it's easier to control how the server would start and stop seprately using corresponding `.service` file.
Examples can be found in the repo.

Note that `.service` file should be put in `/etc/systemd/system` and always do
```bash
systemctl daemon-reload
```
after modifying files in `/etc/systemd/system`.

***Up to v0.16, the lock files are generated by the script called during the Minecraft launching process, not by the launcher itself. In future versions,  I will attempt to have the launcher handle the creation of lock files.***

Frankly speaking, the script was initially only a try to get my hands on shell scripts, and it's also my debut piece with (hopefully) practical value, so don't get mad about its imperfections.
Should any question arise, be free to open an issue. And any new idea or advice on coding is always welcome.



## Upgrade / Installation
Open a terminal and run:
```bash
wget -O <your/path/to/minecraft/folder>/minecraft.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Charles-IX/RaspberryPi_MC_launcher/main/minecraft.sh
```

Then `cd` to your Minecraft folder:
```bash
cd <your/path/to/minecraft/folder>
```

And give the script right permission:
```bash
chmod +x minecraft.sh
```

Finally run:
```bash
./minecraft.sh
```


## Update logs
v0.10: 
- The initial version of the project. 
- Its only function is listing the servers and allows the user to choose which to run.

v0.12: 
- Added the lock file. 
- It will no longer ask user to choose a server to run when a server is already running, instead, it will show information about the running server.

v0.14: 
- Now the launcher would handle the situation where Minecraft services go into "failed" state.

v0.15: 
- Now the launcher would handle all situations where Minecraft services malfunction. In this case, a new debug option "show logs" is added, allowing user to check what happened during the last screen session.

v0.16: 
- Enabled the launcher to upgrade itself when a newer version is detected in the Minecraft directory. 
- Users can now customize their Minecraft directory on first launch. 
- The script can no longer be run as root to prevent unpredictable failures.